LeanEstimates/LeanEstimates.md, before:

class: center, middle

# \#NoEstimates or \#LeanEstimates
## That is the Question

---

name: abstract
exclude: true

\#NoEstimates is one of the hottest debate in Agile right now, but what is it really? Does it really mean “don’t estimate”, or is it something else entirely? Find out why #NoEstimates is really all about Lean Estimation, as well as how you can ditch the story points, reduce waste in your process, and still generate accurate estimates for the decision makers at your company.

In this talk we’ll discuss ways to improve your estimation process by using historic data to accurately (but perhaps not precisely) forecast into the future. We’ll also cover some commonly used Lean forecasting terms like Lead Time, Cycle Time, and Waste and how they apply to software development estimation as well as some caveats and pitfalls to the Lean Estimation approach.

Tired of bickering over story points and want to make your planning meetings productive again? Join me for this session to learn how we did it.

---

# Agenda

[//]: # (TODO)

1. Introduction
2. ...
3. ...

---

# Introduction
## Me
### Contact Info
### Credentials/Context
#### Manufacturing
#### Research & Development

[//]: # (TODO Evaluate if this should move to end or even be a thing at all)

---

class: center, middle

# \#NoEstimates

---

layout:true

# \#NoEstimates

---

## What is it?
--

> \#NoEstimates is a hashtag for the topic of exploring alternatives to estimates [of time, effort, cost] for making decisions in software development.  That is, ways to make decisions with “No Estimates”. 
> 
> ~ [Woody Zuill](http://zuill.us/WoodyZuill/2013/05/17/the-noestimates-hashtag/)

???

Well, that's not very helpful is it...

---

## So what is it *really*?

- A handful of people actually are actually working without estimates
--

- But most people are talking about *forecasting*.

---

## What's Wrong with Story Points?
## What's Wrong with #NoEstimates?

---

layout:false
class: center, middle

# Lean Estimates

---

layout:true

# Lean Estimates

---

Good enough estimates as inexpensively as possible.

---

In other words, eliminate the waste in your estimation process.

---

## Lean Terminology
## Techniques
### Short Term Estimation
### Long Term Estimation

---

## Assumptions

- Deliver as soon as it's done, not on a sprint boundary.
- Work is sliced thinly and reasonably consistently. (Stories are small enough to finish in < 1 wk, preferably < 3 days)
- It's safe to be wrong.
- Work is sliced vertically.

[//]: # (Maybe moved assumptions & benefits up a bit.)

---

## Benefits

- Nearly zero time spent estimating. 
  - One time investment into a worksheet.
  - Minimal tracking overhead, none if using a work tracker like Jira or VSTS.
- Less friction. 
  - No arguing or negotiating estimates.
- Business people think in numbers. Giving them estimates based on data builds trust.

---

## References & Resources

[//]: # (Link to this slide deck online)

Commit message:

NE is just a twitter hashtag

LeanEstimates/LeanEstimates.md, after:

class: center, middle

# \#NoEstimates or \#LeanEstimates
## That is the Question

---

name: abstract
exclude: true

\#NoEstimates is one of the hottest debate in Agile right now, but what is it really? Does it really mean “don’t estimate”, or is it something else entirely? Find out why #NoEstimates is really all about Lean Estimation, as well as how you can ditch the story points, reduce waste in your process, and still generate accurate estimates for the decision makers at your company.

In this talk we’ll discuss ways to improve your estimation process by using historic data to accurately (but perhaps not precisely) forecast into the future. We’ll also cover some commonly used Lean forecasting terms like Lead Time, Cycle Time, and Waste and how they apply to software development estimation as well as some caveats and pitfalls to the Lean Estimation approach.

Tired of bickering over story points and want to make your planning meetings productive again? Join me for this session to learn how we did it.

---

# Agenda

[//]: # (TODO)

1. Introduction
2. ...
3. ...

---

# Introduction
## Me
### Contact Info
### Credentials/Context
#### Manufacturing
#### Research & Development

[//]: # (TODO Evaluate if this should move to end or even be a thing at all)

---

class: center, middle

# \#NoEstimates

---

layout:true

# \#NoEstimates

---

## What is it?
--

> \#NoEstimates is a hashtag for the topic of exploring alternatives to estimates [of time, effort, cost] for making decisions in software development.  That is, ways to make decisions with “No Estimates”. 
> 
> ~ [Woody Zuill](http://zuill.us/WoodyZuill/2013/05/17/the-noestimates-hashtag/)

???

Well, that's not very helpful is it...

More seriously though, NE isn't a methodology, or a practice.
It's a hashtag on twitter. 
It's meant to get us thinking about and questioning how we estimate.

---

## So what is it *really*?

- A handful of people actually are actually working without estimates
--

- But most people are talking about *forecasting*.

---

## What's Wrong with Story Points?
## What's Wrong with #NoEstimates?

---

layout:false
class: center, middle

# Lean Estimates

---

layout:true

# Lean Estimates

---

Good enough estimates as inexpensively as possible.

---

In other words, eliminate the waste in your estimation process.

---

## Lean Terminology
## Techniques
### Short Term Estimation
### Long Term Estimation

---

## Assumptions

- Deliver as soon as it's done, not on a sprint boundary.
- Work is sliced thinly and reasonably consistently. (Stories are small enough to finish in < 1 wk, preferably < 3 days)
- It's safe to be wrong.
- Work is sliced vertically.

[//]: # (Maybe moved assumptions & benefits up a bit.)

---

## Benefits

- Nearly zero time spent estimating. 
  - One time investment into a worksheet.
  - Minimal tracking overhead, none if using a work tracker like Jira or VSTS.
- Less friction. 
  - No arguing or negotiating estimates.
- Business people think in numbers. Giving them estimates based on data builds trust.

---

## References & Resources

[//]: # (Link to this slide deck online)
